Servo Uno
===========

Introduction
--------------------

Servo is a type of geared motor that can only rotate 180 degrees. It is
controlled by sending electrical pulses from your board. These pulses
tell the servo what position it should move to.

A servo has three wires: the brown wire is GND, the red one is VCC, and
the orange one is signal line.

Components
-----------------------

.. image:: media_uno/uno13.png
    :align: center


Component Introduction
------------------------------

Servo
^^^^^^^^^^

A servo is generally composed of the following parts: case, shaft, gear
train, adjustable potentiometer, DC motor, and control circuit board.

It works like this: The Uno board sends out PWM signals to the servo,
and then the control circuit in the servo receives the signals through
the signal pin and controls the motor inside to turn. As a result, the
motor drives the gear chain and then motivates the shaft after
deceleration. The shaft and adjustable potentiometer of the servo are
connected together. When the shaft rotates, it drives the pot, so the
pot outputs a voltage signal to the circuit board. Then the board
determines the direction and speed of rotation based on the current
position, so it can stop exactly at the right position as defined and
hold there.

Schematic Diagram
---------------------

.. image:: media_uno/image119.png
   :width: 7.85069in
   :height: 4.26319in
   :align: center

Experimental Procedures
---------------------------

**Step 1:** Build the circuit (Brown to GND, Red to VCC, Orange to pin 9
of the control board)

**Step 2:** Open the code file.

**Step 3:** Select the **Board** and **Port.**

**Step 4:** Upload the sketch to the board.

.. image:: media_uno/image120.png
   :align: center
   


Now, you can see the rocker arm of the servo rotate and stop at 90
degrees (15 degrees each time). And then it rotates in the opposite
direction.

.. image:: media_uno/image121.jpeg
   :alt: L14
   :width: 7.06736in
   :height: 5.07222in

Code
--------

.. raw:: html

    <iframe src=https://create.arduino.cc/editor/sunfounder01/cb89379d-79ca-4f99-919b-baba70801949/preview?embed style="height:510px;width:100%;margin:10px 0" frameborder=0></iframe>

Code Analysis
-------------------

**Code Analysis** **12-1** **Include a library**

.. code-block:: python

    #include <Servo.h>

    Servo myservo;//create servo object to control a servo

With the *Servo.h* file included, you can call the functions in this
file later. Servo is a built-in library in the Arduino IDE. You can find
the Servo folder under the installation path *C:\Program
Files\Arduino\libraries*.

**Code Analysis** **12-2** **Initialize the servo**

.. code-block:: python

    void setup()

    {

        myservo.attach(9);//attachs the servo on pin 9 to servo object

        myservo.write(0);//back to 0 degrees

        delay(1000);//wait for a second

    }

**myservo.attach():** Attach the Servo variable to a pin. Initialize the
servo attach to pin9.

**myservo.write():** Writes a value to the servo, controlling the shaft
accordingly. On a standard servo, this will set the angle of the shaft
(in degrees), moving the shaft to that orientation. Here let the servo
stay in the 0 angle firstly.

**Code Analysis** **12-3** **Servo rotate**

.. code-block:: python

    void loop()

    {

        for (int i = 0; i <= 180; i++)

        {

            myservo.write(i); //write the i angle to the servo

            delay(15); //delay 15ms

        }

        for (int i = 180; i >= 0; i--)

        {

            myservo.write(i); //write the i angle to the servo

            delay(15); //delay 15ms

        }

    }

Use 2 for() statement to write 0 - 180 to the servo, so that you can see
the servo rotate from 0 to 180 angle,then turn back to 0.